= Polymorphic Type Restrictions

=== Purpose

By default, ActiveRecord's polymorphic associations allow any type to be set.
In practice, it is often only a subset of types that should actually be allowed
in the association. This plugin adds an <tt>:allow</tt> option to the <tt>belongs_to</tt>
class method, which will raise an ActiveRecord::AssociationTypeMismatch error if
a non-allowed type is passed into the association. This is the same exception
that is raised if you pass an object of the wrong type into a non-polymorphic
association.

==== Also...

If a bogus class name is passed into the <tt>XXX_type=</tt> method for a
polymorphic association, no exception is raised (certain validations will then
cause a NameError to be raised, though). Since in a standard Rails use-case none
of the application code will explicitly deal with that attribute value, there's
no DRY way to make sure that a legit class name is being passed in. With this
plugin installed, the setter fails fast, raising an
<tt>ActiveRecord::AssociationTypeNameError</tt> (this is a new one) if the class
name does not exist. That way, your application can easily catch the error in a
<tt>#rescue_action</tt> implementation.

=== Installation

  $ sudo gem install outoftime-polymorphic_type_restrictions --source=http://gems.github.com

Then in your config/environment.rb

  config.gem 'outoftime-polymorphic_type_restrictions', :lib => 'polymorphic_type_restrictions'

=== Usage

Just use the <tt>:allow</tt> key for <tt>belongs_to</tt>:

  class Comment
    belongs_to :commentable,
               :polymorphic => true,
               :allow => %w(Commentable Photo)
  end

The allowed types can indicate a concrete class, a superclass, or an included
module.

=== Contributors

Mat Brown <mat@patch.com>
Adam Hooper <adam@patch.com>

=== License

Polymorphic Type Restrictions is released under the MIT License, copyright (c)
2009 Mat Brown.
